 Web Design Vs. Web Development

 - Web designers create the overall look and feel of a website.
 - web developers implement the design using HTML, CSS, and 
    Javascript code.

Why Take Design Seriously?

Good Design
- Creates an immediate and lasting good impression of the brand
    or product
- Makes the user trust the brand right away
- Increases the user's perceived value of the product or brand
- Gives users exactly what they were looking for when coming to
    the site, eg purchasing a product or finding information


Bad Design
- Makes users believe the brand doesn't really care about their
    product or service
- Makes the user insecure about trusting the brand.
- Makes the brand seem cheap.
- Leaves users fonfused and makes it hard for them to reach
    their goal.


Anyone Can Learn Good Design!

- Good web design is not subjective or creative
- Everyone can learn basics by following a framework/system

Web Design "Ingredients"
1. Typography
2. Colors
3. Images/Illustrations
4. Icons
5. Shadows
6. Border-radius
7. Whitespace
8. Visual Hierarchy
9. User Experience
10. Component Layout

* - Design decisions for each ingredient are based on web-
    site personality

Overview of Website personality

1. Serious/Elegant: for luxury and elegance, based on thin
    serif typefaces, golden or pastel colors, and big high-
    quality images.
2. Minimalist/Simple: focuses on the essential text content
    using small or medium-sized sans-serif text, and few images
    and Icons
3. Plain/Neutral: Design that gets out of the way by using neutral
    and small typefaces, and a very structured layout. Common in
    big corporations.
4. Bold/confident: makes an impact by featuring big and bold 
    typography paired with confident use of big and bright 
    colored blocks.
5. Calm/Peaceful: for products and services that care, transmitted
    by calming pastel colors, soft serif headings, and matching 
    images or Illustrations
6. Startup/Upbeat: widely used in startups, featuring medium-sized
    sans-serif typefaces, light-grey text and backgrounds, and 
    rounded elements.
7. Playful/fun: colorful and round designs, fueled by creative
    elements like hand-drawn icons or illustrations, animations,
    and fun language.