The Process Behind Building a Website

1. Define
L> Define WHO the website is for.
Is it for yourself?
For a client of your agency?
Define what the website is for.
L> In other words, define business
and user goals of your website
project (see UX lecture)
Business goal example: Selling
premium dog food.
User goal example: Finding
high-quality dog food for a
good price.
L> Define a target audience. Be
really specific if possible and
if it makes sense for your web-
site (this can come from your
client)
L> Example: "Women 20 to 40 years
old, living in Europe, earning
over 2000 euros / month, with
a passion for dogs.



2. Plan the Project 
L> Plan and gather website content:
copy (text), images, videos, etc...
L> Content is usually provided by the
client, but you also can help them
produce and find some content (simply
finding free images is easiest, but
if they want copy, charge them extra)
L> For bigger sites, plan out the 
sitemap: what pages the site needs,
and how they are related to one another
(content hierarchy)
L> Based on the content, plan what 
sections each page needs in order to
convey the content's message, and in
which order
L> Define the website personality 
(see web design section)



3. Sketch
L> Think about what components you need,
and how you can use them in layout patterns
L> Get ideas out of your head: sketch them
with pen and paper or with some design 
software (e.g. Figma)
L> This is an iterative process: experiment
with different components and layouts, until
you arrive at a first good solution
L> You don't need to sketch everything, and
don't make it perfect. At some point, you're 
ready to jump into HTML and CSS



4. Design and Build Website
L> Use decisions, content and sketches from
Steps 1, 2 and 3 to design and build the 
website with HTML and CSS ("designing in the 
browser")
L> You already have the layout and components
that you selected in step 3. In this step, 
you need to design the actual visual styles
L> Create the design based on selected web-
site personality, the design guidelines I
showed you, and inspiration
L> Use the client's branding (if it exists
already) for design decisions whenever 
possible: colors, typography, icons, etc...



5. Test and Optimize
L> Make sure website works well in all major
browsers (Chrome, Firefox, Safari, Edge)
L> Test the website on actual mobile devices,
not just in DevTools
L> Optimize all images, in terms of dimensions
and file size (see lecture on images).
L> Fix simple accessibility problems (e.g.
color contrast issues)
L> Run the Lighthouse performance test in 
Chrome DevTools and try to fix reported issues.
L> Think about Search Engine Optimization (SEO)



6. Launch
L> Once all work is done, everything is perfect,
and you got approval from your client (or yourself),
it's time to share your masterpiece with the world!
L> Upload your website files to a hosting platform.
There are countless platforms, we will use the one
with a free plan (Netlify)
L> Choose and buy a great domain name, one that 
represents the brand well, is memorable and easy
to write.



7. Maintain and Update
L> Launching is not the end...
L> Keep the website content updated over time.
L> If you're working with a client, you can 
create a monthly maintenance contract (recurring
revenue)
L> Install analytics software (e.g. Google analytics
or Fathom) to get statistics about website users.
This may inform future changes in the site struct-
ure and content.
L> A blog that is updated regularly is a good way
to keep users coming back, and is also good for
SEO.