Choose the Right Color

1 - Make the main color match your website's personality:
    colors convey meaning!
    - Red: draws a lot of attention, and symbolizes
        power, passion, and excitment
    - Orange: is less aggressive, and conveys 
        happiness, cheerfulness, and creativity
    - Yellow: means joy, brightness, and
        intelligence
    - Green: represents harmony, nature, growth,
        and health
    - Blue: is associated with peace, trust-
        worthiness, and professionalism
    - Purple: conveys wealth, wisdom, and magic
    - Pink: represents romance, care, and 
        affection
    - Brown: is associated with nature, dura-
        bility and comfort
    - Black: symbolizes power, elegance and
        minimalism, but also grief and sorrow
    
2 - Use a good color tone! Don't choose a random
    tone or CSS named colors.

3 - Establic a Color system.
    - You need at least 2 types of colors in your
    color palette: a main color and a grey color.
    - Grey color does not have to be grey. It can be
    a really dark version of another color.

4 - With more experience, you can add more colors:
    accent colors (use a tool)

5 - For diversity, create lighter and darker
    "versions" (tints and shades)
        - You can use a tint and shade 
        generator

When and How to Use Colors

6 - Use your main color to draw attention to the
    most important elements on the page.

7 - Use colors to add interesting accents or make
     entire components or sections stand out.
    
8 - You can try to use your color strategically
    in images and illustrations


Colors and Typography

9 - On dark colored backgrounds, try to use a tint
    of the background ("lighter version") for text

10 - Text should usually not be completely black.
    Lighten it up, else it looks heavy and 
    uninviting

11 - Don't make text too light! Use a tool like 
        coolors to check contrast between text 
        and background colors
    - Contrast ratio needs to be at least 4:5:1
        for normal text and 3:1 for large text
        (18px+)

